JAPAN TO REVISE LONG - TERM ENERGY DEMAND DOWNWARDS The Ministry of International Trade and Industry ( MITI ) will revise its long - term energy supply / demand outlook by August to meet a forecast downtrend in Japanese energy demand , ministry officials said . MITI is expected to lower the projection for primary energy supplies in the year 2000 to 550 mln kilolitres ( kl ) from 600 mln , they said . The decision follows the emergence of structural changes in Japanese industry following the rise in the value of the yen and a decline in domestic electric power demand . MITI is planning to work out a revised energy supply / demand outlook through deliberations of committee meetings of the Agency of Natural Resources and Energy , the officials said . They said MITI will also review the breakdown of energy supply sources , including oil , nuclear , coal and natural gas . Nuclear energy provided the bulk of Japan ' s electric power in the fiscal year ended March 31 , supplying an estimated 27 pct on a kilowatt / hour basis , followed by oil ( 23 pct ) and liquefied natural gas ( 21 pct ), they noted .
THAI TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FIRST QUARTER Thailand ' s trade deficit widened to 4 . 5 billion baht in the first quarter of 1987 from 2 . 1 billion a year ago , the Business Economics Department said . It said Janunary / March imports rose to 65 . 1 billion baht from 58 . 7 billion . Thailand ' s improved business climate this year resulted in a 27 pct increase in imports of raw materials and semi - finished products . The country ' s oil import bill , however , fell 23 pct in the first quarter due to lower oil prices . The department said first quarter exports expanded to 60 . 6 billion baht from 56 . 6 billion . Export growth was smaller than expected due to lower earnings from many key commodities including rice whose earnings declined 18 pct , maize 66 pct , sugar 45 pct , tin 26 pct and canned pineapples seven pct . Products registering high export growth were jewellery up 64 pct , clothing 57 pct and rubber 35 pct .
AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS BUT NSW PORTS HIT Tug crews in New South Wales ( NSW ), Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign - flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute , shipping sources said . The ban , imposed a week ago over a pay claim , had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels , they said . The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration Commission today . Meanwhile , disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of Sydney , Newcastle and Port Kembla , they said . The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the state ' s workers ' compensation laws . The shipping sources said the various port unions appear to be taking it in turn to work for a short time at the start of each shift and then to walk off . Cargo handling in the ports has been disrupted , with container movements most affected , but has not stopped altogether , they said . They said they could not say how long the disruption will go on and what effect it will have on shipping movements .
INDONESIAN COMMODITY EXCHANGE MAY EXPAND The Indonesian Commodity Exchange is likely to start trading in at least one new commodity , and possibly two , during calendar 1987 , exchange chairman Paian Nainggolan said . He told Reuters in a telephone interview that trading in palm oil , sawn timber , pepper or tobacco was being considered . Trading in either crude palm oil ( CPO ) or refined palm oil may also be introduced . But he said the question was still being considered by Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh and no decision on when to go ahead had been made . The fledgling exchange currently trades coffee and rubber physicals on an open outcry system four days a week . " Several factors make us move cautiously ," Nainggolan said . " We want to move slowly and safely so that we do not make a mistake and undermine confidence in the exchange ." Physical rubber trading was launched in 1985 , with coffee added in January 1986 . Rubber contracts are traded FOB , up to five months forward . Robusta coffee grades four and five are traded for prompt delivery and up to five months forward , exchange officials said . The trade ministry and exchange board are considering the introduction of futures trading later for rubber , but one official said a feasibility study was needed first . No decisions are likely until after Indonesia ' s elections on April 23 , traders said . Trade Minister Saleh said on Monday that Indonesia , as the world ' s second largest producer of natural rubber , should expand its rubber marketing effort and he hoped development of the exchange would help this . Nainggolan said that the exchange was trying to boost overseas interest by building up contacts with end - users . He said teams had already been to South Korea and Taiwan to encourage direct use of the exchange , while a delegation would also visit Europe , Mexico and some Latin American states to encourage participation . Officials say the infant exchange has made a good start although trading in coffee has been disappointing . Transactions in rubber between the start of trading in April 1985 and December 1986 totalled 9 , 595 tonnes , worth 6 . 9 mln dlrs FOB , plus 184 . 3 mln rupiah for rubber delivered locally , the latest exchange report said . Trading in coffee in calendar 1986 amounted to only 1 , 905 tonnes in 381 lots , valued at 6 . 87 billion rupiah . Total membership of the exchange is now nine brokers and 44 traders .
( CORRECTED ) - GOODYEAR & lt ; GT > TO SELL CELERON Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co said it expects to sell its Celeron Corp oil and gas subsidiary for about two billion dlrs in about two months . After the company ' s annual meeting , Rober Mercer , Goodyear ' s chairman and chief executive officer , also said Goodyear expects to report a profit of more than one dlr a share from continuing operations in the first quarter . In the same year - ago period , Goodyear reported a loss of 59 cents a share from continuing operations . Mercer said about seven companies are interested in buying Celeron and they may form a consortium to buy the unit .
SAUDI ARABIA WANTS TO INCREASE OIL SALES TO JAPAN Saudi Arabia hopes to increase the volume of its oil exports to Japan through expanding bilateral trade , Saudi Arabian Interior Minister Naif bin Abdul - Aziz said . He told a Tokyo reception his country hopes to raise crude and products exports to Japan to earlier levels , but did not elaborate . To promote trade , Saudi Arabia is inviting Japanese industries to do business there , he said . Japanese firms now have long - term contracts to import a total of 150 , 000 barrels per day of Saudi crude .
U . S . URGES JAPAN TO OPEN FARM MARKET FURTHER U . S . Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng has asked Japan to open its farm market further to help Washington cut its trade deficit and ease protectionist pressures , an Agriculture Ministry official told reporters . Hideo Maki , Director General of the ministry ' s Economic Affairs Bureau , quoted Lyng as telling Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato that the removal of import restrictions would help Japan as well as the United States . The meeting with Kato opened a 12 - day visit to Japan by Lyng , who is here to dicuss farm trade . However , Maki quoted Kato as replying that Japan was already the world ' s largest grain importer . Kato added Japan is the largest customer for U . S . Grain and depended on domestic output for only 53 pct of its food requirements in 1985 . Lyng said the U . S . Put high priority on talks on 12 farm products named in U . S . Complaints against Japan to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) last year , as well as on beef , citrus products and rice . Kato said Japan will maintain its current level of self - sufficiency and will try not to produce surplus rice because potential production is higher than domestic demand . The world farm market suffers from surpluses because of rising production by exporting countries , he added . Lyng said the U . S . Has been trying to reduce farm product output with expensive programs , Maki said . Maki said the U . S . And Japan will hold detailed discussions on each trade item as well as a new round of GATT trade talks at a meeting on April 20 , in which U . S . Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter will join .
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET The Bank of Japan intervened just after the Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from falling below 140 . 00 yen , dealers said . The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars to prevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U . S . Currency , they said . The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140 . 00 yen against 140 . 70 / 80 in New York and 141 . 15 at the close here yesterday . The previous Tokyo low was 140 . 55 yen set on April 15 .
ECUADOR TO USE COLOMBIA OIL LINK FOR FIVE YEARS Ecuador will use a new pipeline link with Colombia to export crude oil for the next five years , Colombian mines and energy minister Guillermo Perry said . The link will be inaugurated on May 8 . It was built to allow Ecuador to resume exports of crude oil halted on March 5 by earthquake damage to its Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline , Once that pipeline is repaired , Ecuador will exceed its OPEC quota in order to offset lost income and pay debts contracted with Venezuela and Nigeria since the quake , Ecuador mines and energy minister Javier Espinosa said . The two ministers were speaking at a news conference after signing an agreement for joint oil exploration and exploitation of the jungle border zone between the two nations . Drilling will begin in September . " The agreement to transport Ecuadorean crude oil is not only for this emergency period but for the next five years , with possibility of an extension . Between 20 , 000 and 50 , 000 barrels per day ( bpd ) will be pumped along it ," Perry said . Espinosa said Ecuador planned to pump 35 mln barrels through the link in the next five years , at a cost of 75 cents per barrel during the first year . The 43 - km link , with a maximum capacity of 50 , 000 bpd , will run from Lago Agrio , the centre of of Ecuador ' s jungle oilfields , to an existing Colombian pipeline that runs to the Pacific port of Tumaco . Espinosa said the 32 - km stretch of the link built on the Ecuadorean side cost 10 . 5 mln dlrs . Perry gave no figures for Colombia ' s 11 km segment but said it was " insignificant compared with what we are going to earn ." OPEC member Ecuador was pumping around 250 , 000 bpd before the quake . Lost exports of 185 , 000 bpd are costing it 90 mln dlrs per month , Espinosa said .
ITALY DEFICIT NOT DUE TO LIBERALIZATION - MINISTER Italy ' s Foreign Trade Minister Mario Sarcinelli , commenting on speculation in the Italian press , said a sharp balance of payments deficit in May could not be attributed to recent moves liberalizing the purchase of foreign securities . Sarcinelli was reacting to suggestions that last month ' s overall 3 , 211 billion lire deficit , which compares with April ' s 2 , 040 billion surplus , could be linked to a May 13 decree abolishing obligatory non - interest - bearing deposits on foreign securities purchases . " The deficit can be better attributed to premature and delayed foreign trade payments and receipts ( leads and lags ) rather than capital outflow to portfolio investment ," Sarcinelli said in a statement . Earlier today the newspaper La Repubblica cited remarks by the Bank of Italy , which announced the deficit for May and said it had been partly caused by " non - banking capital outflows ." " In practice , it seems that there has been a constant flow of capital to foreign securities or investments outside our borders ," said the newspaper . But the newspaper added that it was still not possible to say how far the move to abolish foreign securities purchase deposits had affected Italy ' s balance of payments .
ROYAL BANK / CANADA SEES HIGHER 1987 LOAN LOSSES & lt ; Royal Bank of Canada > said it estimates 1987 loan losses at one billion dlrs , a 25 mln dlr increase over last year . Royal Bank said it set its provisions " given the continued debt - servicing problems ... in the North American energy industry and the uncertain outlook for energy prices ," and also continued to add to its general provisions for loans to troubled borrower countries . The bank ' s loan loss provision for the first quarter ended January 31 rose to 223 mln dlrs from 187 mln dlrs in the year - ago quarter . The bank said non - accrual loans , net of provisions for loan losses , totalled 2 . 2 billion dlrs on January 31 , up from 2 . 0 billion dlrs a year ago . In reporting lower first quarter earnings , chairman Allan Taylor said problems with credit quality -- particularly in loans associated with the energy sector -- continue to have a substantial adverse effect on the bank ' s earnings . Taylor said profitability of the bank ' s international operations remains weak , reflecting resource - related difficulties of private and public sector borrowers and unsatisfactory results from capital market activities . Taylor said it would be premature to speculate on the outcome of debt resturcturing negotiations with Brazil or their potential impact on the Royal Bank . The bank earlier reported first quarter profit fell to 114 . 1 mln dlrs from 140 . 4 mln dlrs a year ago .
LEADING COCOA PRODUCERS DISCUSS INTERNATIONAL PACT Leading cocoa producers will discuss whether newly - agreed rules on an international cocoa buffer stock will succeed in reversing a sharp fall in world prices when they start four day ' s of talks here later today , conference sources said . Another topic likely to be discussed at the twice - yearly meeting of the Cocoa Producer Alliance ( CPA ) is the pact ' s second line of market support -- a witholding scheme under which exporters can take up to 120 , 000 tonnes of cocoa off the market if buffer stock purchases fail to defend prices . The International Cocoa Organisation is due to discuss the scheme at a meeting in June , and exporters could use the Yaounde talks to work out a common position on the issue , the sources said . Delegates will also be briefed on arrangements for an international cocoa research conference due to take place in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic next month , CPA secretary general D . S . Kamga said . The 11 - member CPA include the world ' s top three producers of Ivory Coast , Brazil and Ghana and accounts for around 80 pct of world output .
